[77. Combinations](https://leetcode.com/problems/combinations/)


### <span style="color:orange; font-weight:700">Solution - 1 : Backtrack-1 ```0()```</span>

#### <span style="color:greenyellow; font-weight:700"> Understanding Combination </span>

Let's say you have given three balls(1 2 3). How many chances are there if you took two balls only?

Here n=3(total number of balls) and k = 2 (required number of balls).

In combination, we only took the required possible chances.

Total ball:
```
1 2 3
```
Chances:
```
1 2 
2 3
3 1
```
3 chances we made. Here only we took the required possible chances.

```Formula```: <sup>n</sup>C<sub>r</sub> = n! &frasl; (n-r)! r!

```Shortcut```: <sup>3</sup>C<sub>2</sub> = 3 * 2 &frasl; 1 * 2 = 3



#### <span style="color:greenyellow; font-weight:700"> Why it is a backtracking problem? </span>

This is a popular template for solving a lot of problems based on recursion and backtracking.

Why it is backtracking? As we have a constraint (all possible combinations of k numbers), so we can say that it is backtracking. In dfs you explore all the possible chances and dfs usually doesn't belong to constraint, but in backtracking, you must have a constraint as you can pruned some branches as early as possible.


#### <span style="color:greenyellow; font-weight:700"> Intuition </span>

- As we have to find out all the possible combinations of k number, so when our currentCombination length is equal to k, we can backtrack from this point, if we do so k+1 size currentCombination will be pruned. So at this point we implemented our constraints.
- We take a start/left because we want to track down from which point curentCombination push value.
- In explore, start = i+1 because we only choose the value which is greater than i. If we wrote start = start+1, then the previous start value will also store in the result, which we don't want, also it is against the concept combination.
- Time and complexity: O(k * n! &frasl; (n-k)! k!)  
   - We multiply k because copying the currentCombination(result.push([...currentCombination])) takes k times memory. The Rest of the part is combination theory.
- Debug the follwing code for better understanding.

```javascript
function backtrack(n,k,start,result,currentCombination){
  if(currentCombination.length===k){
    result.push([...currentCombination])
    return;
  }

  for(let i=start;i<=n;i++){
    // choose
    currentCombination.push(i);

    // explore
    backtrack(n,k,i+1,result,currentCombination);

    // unchoose
    currentCombination.pop();
  }
}

var combine = function(n, k) {
  backtrack(n, k, start=1, result=[], currentCombination=[]);
  return result;   
};

console.log(combine(3,2));
```

#### <span style="color:greenyellow; font-weight:700"> References </span>

- [Neetcode combination](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=q0s6m7AiM7o&t=447s)